# multigeneblast2.0

Multigeneblast is a program build in python for blasting multiple genes at once as if they were in a cluster to find similar clusters in a provided database. The original version of this software was developed by Marnix Medema and was released October 2012. Some iterations where made and in February 2015 the last version of the software was released. Since then allot has changed with python and the size of the NCBI database.
This project was originally started to allow online connections to the NCBI database and some other general improvements as well as upgrading the source code to python 3. The later part of this has been done. As a result, a couple of errors generated by the original code have been fixed (mainly errors whit requesting downloads), the software also seems to run moderately faster. Besides that, Diamond (http://www.diamondsearch.org/index.php) has been used instead of the NCBI blastp to speed up the blasting process for searches against a protein database.

We decided to leave the tool as it is now, with the revamped code base and Diamond integration, and release this as the last version of multigeneblast. After this the energy will  be focused on improving a similar project by the name of cblaster (https://github.com/gamcil/cblaster).  cblaster is a tool developed recently that did the same things we set out to improve in multigeneblast. That is why we decided to work together with the developers of cblaster to make a more complete tool and upgrade of the original multigeneblast.

Documentation for multigeneblast can be found at http://multigeneblast.sourceforge.net/ , this documentation might be slightly outdated for certain aspects of multigeneblast but is probably sufficient to get the software working. For people who have used the software before, most things should look familiar. There are now also -help/-h options available for the command line version of the tool to better understand the optional arguments.
